Part A Wireshark Programming Task (45 points)

1. Calculated the number of TCP flows using SYN and ACK flag bits. If both are set, it means handshake procedure is
   going on which indicates a new TCP flow.

2. For each TCP flow:
a. We get the first two transactions after the connection is setup using 3-way handshake. We extract and store the
   values for sequence number, acknowledgement number and receive window size.
   Sequence number: In SYN flag bit is set, it signifies the first sequence number, otherwise it represents the first data
                    octet in the current segment.

   Acknowledgement number: If the ACK flag bit is set, this field contains the value of the next sequence number the
                           sender of the segment is expecting to receive. Once a connection is established this is
                           always sent.

   Window size: The number of data octets beginning with the one indicated in the acknowledgment field which the sender
                of this segment is willing to accept.

b. We computed the throughput by size of the total data including the data and headers. Dividing this by the difference
   we get by subtracting the end time and start time of each flow.

c. Loss rate is computed by including all the sequence numbers that were retransmitted by the sender and diving it by
   total number of packets sent. We stored all the packets and traversed through it and stored the unique sequence
   numbers in a set. The difference between size of the total sequences and size of the set give the number of
   retransmissions performed.


d. Average RTT is calculated for each TCP flow by adding all the time taken for each transaction and dividing it by
   total number of transactions done.

   For calculating throughput formula used: (sqrt(3/2) * (MSS / (sqrt(p) * Average RTT)))
   We see the empirical throughput we got from the pcap logs is different from  the throughput we got by the above
   formula. The difference is because while using the formula, we are taking the average RTT values, loss rate and
   fixed MSS. On the other hand, the empirical throughput calculation is done on the real network data and we know
   TCP throughput is highly sensitive to loss which may be caused due to different network conditions.

